Raw sky emission data files 0.9-5.6 and 7-26 microns for both Mauna
Kea and Cerro Pachon are available in ascii format via the following
tables. These files are sky background only; they do not include the
emission from the telescope itself and from the instrument (both of
which are included in the IR Integration Time Calculators).  

The files were manufactured starting from the sky transmission files
generated by ATRAN (Lord, S. D., 1992, NASA Technical Memorandum
103957). These files were subtracted from unity to give an emissivity
and then multiplied by a blackbody function of temperature 273 for
Mauna Kea and 280 for Cerro Pachon. To these were added the OH
emission spectrum (available from the European Southern Observatory's
ISAAC web pages) a set of O2 lines near 1.3 microns with estimated
strengths based on observations at Mauna Kea, and the dark sky
continuum (in part zodiacal light), approximated as a 5800K gray body
times the atmospheric transmission and scaled to produce 18.2
mag/arcsec^2 in the H band, as observed on Mauna Kea by Maihara et
al. (1993 PASP, 105, 940).

Any use of the data in these tables should reference Lord (1992) and
acknowledge Gemini Observatory. The 1-5 micron models are in ASCII
two-column format: (a) wavelength with a sampling of 0.00002µm and a
resolution of 0.0004µm (0.04nm) and (b) emission in
ph/sec/arcsec^2/nm/m^2 . The 7-26 micron models have a sampling of
0.0001µm and a resolution of 0.0002µm (0.2nm) for Mauna Kea and
0.002µm and 0.004µm (4nm) for Cerro Pachon.

Note the crudity of the approximation of the thermal background, which
assumes that all sources of sky opacity are at T=273K on Mauna Kea and
T=280 on Cerro Pachon. In reality the sources occur at various
altitudes above each site. Thus, these files should overestimate the
thermal background. Note also that the OH lines can vary in intensity
from night to night and vary greatly during the night as well. Finally
note that background from moonlight is not included, but it can be
very significant in the J, H, and K bands, especially if the target is
located close to the bright moon
